---
title: An End
tags: [breakup, music, entertainment, escapism]
category: [Meta]
---

### [2022-03-21 Mon 13:48] - 7994

Sunday morning 0100 hrs, my first relationship (~20 months) came to an end:
we separated with the reasoning that we are in
incompatible phases of our life right now.  
She was my first true friend with whom I did not refrain from talking
about what's on my mind and suddenly there's no one but just this blog and
my journal.  

I find myself behaving differently immediately and somewhat
involuntarily. As expected, the amount I laugh, smile, smirk have dipped
drastically: my friends are starting to question why I'm unusually
serious (I'm usually serious as well, but this time its not in
accordance to my volition).  

I find myself unable to acknowledge (with a chuckle, laugh or any
reaction along those lines) the minor moments in my life and
that I previously easily did. I'm not exactly absent, but just don't
care enough to react: All of this is involuntary by the way and I
don't really want to be the silent guy who kills off a joyful mood in
a group.  

On that note, I also find myself unable to bring up this topic with my friends
directly: don't want any sympathies..  

Finally, I naturally chose not to listen to music on my workout today
and am just dialing into my surroundings way more efficiently. I'm
narcissistic and usually don't miss a chance to catch a glance of
myself in any sort of mirror (windows do act as one) and I would
usually go out of my way slightly (literally) to do that. Today, however though
[^1], I am not caring enough and simply moving right into the next
thing when I'm done with one - I'm , again involuntarily, robotic.  

This week happens to be the mid-semester vacation and most of my
friends are going somewhere with other independent subsets of friends
and I have time for myself again (this was planned) where I'm truly
alone after a long time - truly now that I don't have anyone to talk
freely as well. Consequently, to fully embrace the suck, am
giving up music, podcasts and visual forms of entertainment again: for an
indefinite period this time and I feel fine about that - will be
reading and writing and studying.
Whatever I experience in the following days, I know for sure that I'm not
escaping any of it.  

[^1]: I don't know if this is correct but quite interesting





