---
title: Observation Stream
category: Observations
tags: [observations]
---

Things that don't fit in, fit here.

### [2022-02-17 Thu 13:18] - 7962

 - on a video call yesterday, due to exceptionally high ping (delay),
   I saw myself blink
 - that was a rare sighting: I keep my distance from most
   forms of social media and hence have no visual record of me just existing
    - I also don't have the kind of friends who'd post about me on social media: the
      one's who'd be interested have convinced themselves to stay away
      from it as well
 - This was somewhat of a revelation for me as I can relate to the era
   when no cheap way to store visual memory existed (an artist
   wouldn't paint a portrait with the subject blinking).
 - Shiny surfaces(mirrors, still water, etc) wouldn't cut it as you're
   blinking when the image of you blinking is formed (I tried...)
 - Consequently, I'm more aware of the differences between natural
   forms of visual replication (image formation) and actually storing
   a representation of the same and regenerating it on demand.


### [2021-09-26 Sun 17:45]

 - around 4~5 days ago, had a discussion regarding the distribution of
   manual dexterity with my friends over a cup of coffee
 - obviously right-handed people are more common and we discussed why
   that is and how this has been viewed over the centuries (left being
   evil, sinister, gauche..).
   - nothing new up until this point
   - then we talked about how writing flow (left-right, right-left,
     top-bottom) varied across cultures
	 - writing with an ink is favorable from left to right for
       right-handed people to avoid smudging.
	 - I asked what about Arabic - initial false assumption that most
       of them were left-handed
	 - then, one friend pitched in saying that they chiseled stones
       during the formative years so the smudging story doesn't work
       here
     - we weren't quite clear why prefer right to left for chiseling stones
	 - then, I mimicked chiseling on a stone (I'm right handed). 
	 - I intuitively held the hammer in my right and the chisel in my
       left
     - then it all clicked, the striking angle would be from right to
       left and chiseling is not a particularly precise act, there are
       bound to be miscalculations in the force needed. 
	 - If one starts from the left, inscribing the next character
       could destroy the previous etch but that can be completely
       avoided when proceeding from right to left.
 - learned something that would be difficult to stumble upon with the internet
 - acting made it extremely easy: an act can connect the minds
   and tendencies of people separated by centuries and cultures.

### [2021-09-19 Sun 18:35]

 - wondering upon the questionable finitude of "the" chain of thought
 - believe it should be possible to chart out what the mind is all about
 - if one goes about marking territories as they traverse along
   without alteration (only observe) 
   - wouldn't be the most ideal to do that in one go
   - non-dual traversal should lead to interesting
     thoughts after the conventional wisdom is appropriately marked
     and scraped through

### [2021-09-11 Sat 15:05]

 - One may have thought about different modes of communication with
   both the sender and the receiver being in the same modes
   - I recently have established a new favorite 
   - one talks, the other types/writes : I prefer being the typer (I
     won't say a typist)
   - much better in terms of how discussions turn out
   - the typer doesn't need repeat what is typed 
   - the typer also doesn't technically interrupt the talker and one
     particular party (sender/receiver) does not feel like they have to
     wait for the other to finish
 - this is how I've been dealing lately with questions for virtual
   lectures and one professor complained that reading in their live
   conversation is uncomfortable..
 - but, not having to repeat anything is such a game changer, you can
   just point it out with a blank face..

### Wed Jul 28 20:09:14 IST 2021

 - Had a cold recently and my voice took a hit
	 - some complimented it's better, some just acknowledge that it's
       different, no negative comments yet
		   - people seem to get it on their own that I'm not faking it
 - Other than the changes in the nature of my voice, discrete changes
   can also be observed
     - It is impossible to "hmm" with a blocked nose
		   - have had to switch them out with slightly different
             "huh"s than what I already use in my natural speech
	 - nasal phonemes have been mangled with and require extra effort
       to be completely conveyed:
		   - when I say "blank", one may take it to be "black"

### Thu Jul  8 18:46:32 IST 2021

 - I caught a cold day before yesterday and life has extremely
   sub-optimal since then
	   - can't work out, lost appetite, staying hydrated is tougher,
         can't sleep when I need it the most
	   - Almost all intellectual pursuits have been compromised :- 
		   - This is the closest I get to being a zombie:
			   - eat, locomote, consume the most superficial level of
                 information around and fall asleep by chance due to fatigue
	   - took a day off from work and have a lot of time to spare:
		   - even watching anything takes some effort and is daunting
             with a throbbing brain.
 - This happens to me almost once a year and I forget the habitual
   routines I enforce the previous times to hasten the riddance.
	   - rehydrating and sleeping tricks need to be relearned and
         surveyed again. 
	   - Good thing I have my parents around that have endured almost
         double the number of colds
			- they're persistent enough to not give up on me when I
              oppose the normal route of medication and try to brute
              through a cold
			- to their advantage, even though I get the voice of an
              old sage during such times, I am not at my most rational
 - Henceforth, I'm planning on initiating eviction protocols at the
   slightest hint of a sore throat.
	   - no more waiting for a natural recovery :- that is a hideous concept

### Sat Jun 19 09:25:01 IST 2021

 - Lately, I've been more aware of the itch-scratch cycle
 - scratching only worsens the itch
   - analogous to one noticing a drop of water when it's only
     beginning to rain but not being able to distinguish between
     distinct drops when it pours.
 - not scratching feels different: but that is the smartest way
 - wonder why we are not evolution~arily smart-enough to not scratch
   - on second thought, scratching is far from being deadly so that's
     a stupid line of thought
	 - anyone who scratches, survives

### Fri May 28 16:29:52 IST 2021

 - If I lived in the 17th century, I wouldn't be able to watch *"Batman: The Animated Series"*

### Wed May 19 21:18:18 IST 2021

 - Today, I saw an insect crawl.
 - I've been seeing them all my life but this one was slow and big enough to be easily observable
 - They have 3 pairs of legs
   - The inner pair of legs move the most and the outer pairs relatively less
 - compared to humans, their center of mass doesn't bob away and towards the surface they walk on as much
 - just had a deja vu : been having a lot of these lately
   - glitches in the matrix ...
 - never thought about the energy expenditure of an insect
   - do they track their macros somehow and seek variety in whatever they eat?
   - do they consciously decide whether it is more efficient to walk up a wall or fly and land somewhere it?
   - do they have the notion of exercising or training for a particular task?
	 - or is it all practical : hunting and evading being the only play ...
 - do they have circadian rythms?
   - some do: cicadas for instance : are a pain
   - some probably not : once with very short life cycles, feel like they won't be exposed to enough solar days
   - they could take them as seasons though
   

### Thu May 13 20:21:29 IST 2021

 - around 25 days of no visual media entertainment: The mind is cycling through old stuff that I watched.
 - life would be more interesting if Pokemon really existed but then I had all these thoughts about the same:
   - A dragon type chooses to eat processed pellets rather than the bug type next to it.
	 - utter disregard for the notion of a food chain
   - Very conveniently, different species pokemon can understand each other but humans are too dumb for that.
   - Conveniently again, the cry of a pokemon is its name : bellsprout says bellsprout; bulbasaur goes bulbasaur
	 - that's three syllables : pokemon should be dumb for that...
   - As many of my acquaintances would attest, Pokemon have a greater range of expressions than I do.
   - They can narrate stories with gestures.
 - Well, lastly, I'm naive enough to take this all too seriously cause they can spit fire and ice
   - That's some misdirection for the children and adults that watch(ed) the show (I finished the 23rd season last year)
 - For a self-proclaimed harbinger of logic : this is like burrying one's head into the sand like an ostrich.
 - Now I am okay with them not really existing.
 - They're like one of those sitcoms that try to be funny by leveraging tracks of laughter
   - A lot of people might wish to be in that sort of an environment but that sort of ignorance towards rationality could definitely induce depression.

### Fri May  7 14:55:37 IST 2021

 - Have been listening to a lot of instrumental and lofi beats while working recently
 - Given that I have no other major rythmic externalities in the day : I start to subconsciously get in sync with the same
 - be it:
   - walking around
   - chewing food
   - typing periodicity
   - breathing
 - happens even when I'm not listening
 - have to avoid lyrical and listen to the same kind of music for this though : or lyrical on loop but that's not my thing
 - Will read up on literature about this sometime soon

### Wed Apr 28 21:16:18 IST 2021

 - Did test out the hypothesis pondered upon the last time
 - Doubled the amount of ice : 2 kilos in 15 liters(eyeballing the amount of water)
   - maybe should look into better techniques for eyeballing things
     - just a stream where I assert numerical claims I can't testify explicitly sounds nice.
   - note that freezing time matters
     - 24 hours gives big solid blocks
     - 12 hours not so much : not frozen all the way through
   - Equilibrium corresponds a mixture
 - This also means that I can more accurately claim that I bathe with water at 0 degrees
 - Final shape has a very sharp circular brim corresponding to the open half of the freezing (cylindrical) utensil
   - Like a container : a transperent mug
     	  - well that's a glass made of glass
	  - but this one melts
 - So not really symmetric about the horizontal plane as I had hypothesized
 - The local freezing choronology matters:
   - Hypothesizing with prior knowledge:
     - Top first and seep down the bottom
       - but then why does the top melt the first giving a containerish appearance
       - To verify this, will have to describe the freezing patterns and the resultant cracks 
   - Maybe should lookup what impurities are actually present in the tap water and how do they really affect the fluid's thermodynamics.
   

### Wed Apr 14 18:53:11 IST 2021

Have been taking ice baths for a month now and noticed something interesting today.

 - Prior : I use around a kilo of ice - a cylinder, frozen for 12 hours (two baths a day) : used to cool down around 15 litres of water @ room temperature
 - notice the final sphere of ice melting in a mug under well lit conditions
    - small air packets slowly rise up from around the sphere : I freeze tap water : Impurities are a factor
 - also notice that irrespective of the initial shape of a solid block of ice (solid the all way through, usually on day when I miss a shower(the cylinder has been frozen for a good 24 hours)), the final melting shape is always somewhat spherical
 - what if equilibrium corresponded to a mixture of the two states?
    - there could be multiple shapes with the same masses of the states
    - what is the affinity of each of these configurations?
        - energy wise, a spherical shape seems best because that promotes a similar equilibrium at all localities on the ice
            - caveat : for very large blocks of ice (ice bergs), the temperature gradient set off due to convection might play a role : that should make things more "eggish"
                - big-endian or little-endian is another issue : I hypothesize big endian (top first)

### Sat Mar 13 21:26:48 IST 2021

Dust is made up of a lot of dead skin.  
Two days ago, seated on my couch, gulping a protein shake in the golden 8 AM sunlight after a good workout, I noticed these funny little structures flaoting around. Everyone knows that's dust, but I'm not here to write to let people know.  
One thing that stuck with me post [Leonardo's biography]({% post_url /books/2020-11-09-LdaV%}) was observing and reasoning about stuff for fun.  

Here are some observations about dust:-
 - It comes in all shapes and sizes. Some like a cork-screw, some straight as a french fry, some as small as a point.
 - They move differently. They make fluid motion observable.
    - It moves slowly up from sun-lit surfaces, being  replaced by particles from the shade : That's convection.
 - If you try to play with the air your hands and are attentive : you might have your own turbulent flow wind tunnel; you could observe Bernoulli's Principle (I recall using it in one of my science fair exhibitions: brought two cans together with a bang just by blowing air between them with a straw)
 - If you rub your index finger and thumb slowly and with great pressure, you could see a wavy (sinusoid like) soot-like substance rising up in the air : good lighting conditions are needed for this.


